This directory contains the FORTRAN 77 source code of the Lund Monte Carlo 
Ariadne version 4.08 for generating QCD cascades according to the Colour 
Dipole Model.

REGISTRATION:

If you have obtained this program via anonymous ftp, you should send me an
E-mail to register yourself as a user. In this way I can keep track of who is
using the program and can keep you informed about bug-fixes and updates.

INSTALLATION:

If you have a "make" facility you should edit the Makefile according to the
instructions in it and type "make install". This will compile the program and 
produce an "ar" library of the object files called "libar4.a" which will be
copied to the specified directory.

The code is written according to the FORTRAN 77 standard. The only exception
is the use of "INCLUDE" statements. If your compiler cannot handle this, you
must use the file ariadne-4.08.f which contains the full program without 
"INCLUDE" statements.

If you do not have a "make" facility the full program is contained in the file
ariadne-4.08.f and you may do whatever you usually do with a Fortran source
file.

If you use the file ariadne-4.08.f and split it up into subroutines to create
a load library, please remember to place the routine "BLOCK DATA ARDATA" in the
same module as "SUBROUTINE ARINIT" for proper initialization of the common 
blocks.

If you are using the file ariadne-4.08.f together with PYTHIA or
LEPTO you must comment out the subroutines PYSTFU and LNSTRF
respectively. If you use "libar4.a" together with PYTHIA or LEPTO it
should be linked after the corresponding PYTHIA or LEPTO archives. If
the linker despite this complains about the routines PYSTFU or LNSTRF,
try to change the name of the problem routine and recompile.

TEST PROGRAMS:

There are four different test programs in this directory; "atest.f", "jtest.f",
"ltest.f" and "ptest.f".

"atest.f" checks the Ariadne program and watches for rounding errors
etc. To run it type "make atest" and run the executable file "atest".

"jtest.f" tests the interface to the JETSET program. Do "make jtest" and run
the executable "jtest" which will produce listings of ten e+e- events at LEP
energy.

"ltest.f" test the interface to the LEPTO program. Do "make ltest" and run
the executable "ltest" which will produce listings of ten ep events at HERA
energy.

"ptest.f" test the interface to the PYTHIA program. Do "make ptest" and run
the executable "ptest" which will produce listings of ten pp events at LHC
energy. 

If any of these test programs crashes or produces error messages
please report it to me.

MANUALS:

There is also a manual in this directory. It comes in two different
formats, PostScript, and plain ASCII text in the files "ariadne.ps",
and "ariadne.man" respectively. Note that "ariadne.man" does not
contain all chapters of the manual.

REFERENCES:

If results obtained by the Ariadne program is used in a publication, the
reference should read something like:

L.\ L"\{o}nnblad, Ariadne version 4.08 program and manual,
{\it Comp.\ Phys.\ Comm.} {\bf 71} (1992) 15.

AUTHOR:

Leif Lonnblad
CERN - TH
CH-1211 Geneve 23
Switzerland


E-mail: Leif.Lonnblad@cern.ch
        leif@thep.lu.se

Phone:  int +41-22-7672413
Fax:    int +41-22-7823914
